## Exercise 2.1
(a) $Y_{i}(0)$  means the outcome $Y$ for any particular unit $i$ in the untreated/control state
(b) $Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}=1$ means that the individual was assigned the control condition but received treatment anyways meaning always takers; whereas $Y_{i}(0)|d_{i}=1$ references what the outcome would have been for the control group had they been assigned treatment (this cannot be measured)
(c)  $Y_{i}(0)$ means the outcome for the untreated/control group whereas  $Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}=0$ means the outcome for the untreated/control group who was also assigned the untreated/control group
(d) $Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}=1$ references the individuals who were assigned the control condition but received treatment anyways whereas $Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}=0$  refers to the individuals who were assigned the control condition and were not treated. 
(e) $E[Y_{i}(0)]$ referenced the value of a random individual in the control condition which in practice is the average for the control group whereas $E[Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}]=1$ is  the average of the group assigned control but who received treatment
(f) There are always some people who are more likely to partake in the treatment either because the treatment administer thinks that's strategic or the participant deems the treatment desirable. Whereas a coinflip or other versions of randomness make it equally likely that regardless of preconditions individuals get assigned their treatment status. The difference in outcomes between the treated and untreated becomes equal to the average treatment effect among the treated because there are no individuals who do not follow their treatment status. $Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}=1$ (the treated but assigned control) and $Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}=0$ (the control and assigned control) are the same which means  only the term for the average among the treated regardless of status remains in the equation.

## Exercise 2.10
(a) It is standard procedure to blind participants to their treatment status so that they do not distort the outcomes. Students who know they received a newspaper for an experiment may report liking politics more just to satisfy the researcher. Then any change in political interest would not be an effect of the newspaper but an effect of "being selected" and satisfying the researcher. Meanwhile, students in the control group may report even less interest in politics as a form of backlash if they know they weren't selected for a free newspaper. There is an additional causal pathway to the outcome related to satisfying or rebelling against the researchers that influence the outcome but was not manipulated and somewhat correlates with the treatment status (because some people may not have read the disclosure letter). This means that the error terms are difference. The error term $e$ in the treatment condition $E[e_{i1}|D_{i}=1]$ are unequal to the errors in the untreated group $E[e_{i1}|D_{i}=0]$.
(b) In the event treated students bring their newspapers to the library, it is likely that some people in the control group will read the newspapers, which is called treatment spillover as a form of interference. Now you have people in your control group that have been treated $Y_{i}(0)|D_{i}=1$ which biases your average treatment downward to be smaller than expected as the control group will be more similar to your treatment group than expected.

## Exercise 2.12
(a) One might assume that the types of prisoners who read 3 hours a day of their own volition are different than those who are not in some other way than reading that makes them more peaceful or less prone to violence. In essence, there are confounders about the inmates that are unmeasured so we can't be sure it's reading driving the effect.
(b) The excludability assumption will be met so long as all the prisoners in the reading group all go to the same library and the guards enforce the "reading rules" in the library the same way every day. There cannot be some guards asking questions like "what are you reading" or yelling at inmates who do not look like they are reading fast enough. That would introduce differential procedures depending on who is on guard that day. Also the reading and non-reading groups need to be measured on exactly the same outcomes. So let's say for some reason the guards become friends with the inmates in the library and start armwrestling with those inmates for fun. Perhaps those inmates start giving fistbumps to the guards. Fistbumps could look like a punch that's been blocked. However, if the guards don't count the reading inmates fistbumps as violent acts but they count the control inmates fistbumps as violent that would mean the control and treated group are being measured differently.
(c) Non-interference implies that the outcome (violence) does not depend on any other participant being assigned treatment or any other participant being violent or not. 
(d) Once all prisoners are required to read for 3 hours each day. Then the question is no longer whether there's an effect or not on decreasing violence (because we already found that there is a negative effect compared to no reading at all). Now that everyone is required to read there will be more dependence between the treated so that peace is not an effect of reading but a product of fewer people being violent. This is normally referred to as SUTVA (the stable unit value assumption) but instead the outcome of being less violent as a result of reading might create a culture of less violence once more inmates are required to read.



